
# Bike-Sharing-ML-Model-Building

In this assignment, I have to build a multiple linear regression model for the prediction of demand for shared bikes using linear regression programming.

In a bike-sharing system, bikes are made available to individuals on a short-term basis for a price or for free for the purpose of sharing. Bicycle share systems allow people to borrow bikes from docks, which are usually computer-controlled, where the user enters their payment information, and the system unlocks the bike. The bike can then be returned to another dock within the same system. Because of the ongoing Corona pandemic, BoomBikes, a US bike-sharing provider, has recently suffered significant revenue drops.Current market conditions make it very difficult for companies to survive. Therefore, once the prolonged lockdown ends and the economy returns to health, we have decided to put together a thoughtful business plan to accelerate our earnings. In one such attempt, BoomBikes is trying to understand the demand for shared bikes among people after this ongoing quarantine situation due to Covid-19 across the country ends. They planned this to be ready to respond to people's needs when the situation is improved everywhere, differentiating themselves from other service providers and making great profits.They set up a consulting firm Hire and understand the factors driving the demand for these shared bikes. In particular,The company wants to understand the factors that influence the demand for these shared bikes in the American market. The company wants to know which variables are important in predicting demand for shared bikes, or how accurately these variables represent demand for bikes. Based on various weather surveys and people's styles, service provider companies have collected a large dataset of daily bicycle demand in the American market based on several factors.

Business Objectives:The demand for shared bikes should be modeled using the available independent variables. Administrators use it to understand exactly how requirements differ by role. They can manipulate their business strategy accordingly to meet demand levels and meet customer expectations. In addition, models are a good way for management to understand the demand dynamics of new markets.

Libraries:  Pandas and Numpy libraries are imported for analytical and numerical functions. Seaborn and Matplotlib libraries were imported for visualization. Regression, train-test-split, RFE, linear regression, constant addition, VIF and r2_score were imported from sklearn. A warning filter was imported to avoid warnings. 

Conclusion : We can see the demand for bike-sharing systems depending on the following variables: Demand for bike-sharing systems declines mainly during the holidays in January and July. It is a time of high humidity, cloudy weather, high wind speeds, light rain and snow.
Demand increases in September and December, when winter continues, and in summer when temperatures are high. Temperature and time of year also play an important role in increasing demand for bike-sharing schemes. Seasons such as winter and summer are the toughest times to share a bike, but cloudy, humid, light rain/heavy snow are the worst times to share a bike.
There are more bike rentals in 2019 than in 2018, as may increase environmental awareness. When it comes to bike sharing, the months are relevant as well, as the seasons make a big difference. Winter months, such as September and December, and summer months are good for rentals, but January, July, and the rainy season are less demanding. Perhaps because of the low demand for vacations, people prefer to spend time with their families, mainly at home. I can't guess much from weekdays, but Saturdays and Sundays are public holidays, so there aren't many weekday rentals. Workdays can be busy times for bike sharing as it is useful for office work, students, etc. Weather conditions can play an important role in the demand for bike sharing. Light snow, heavy snow/rain will result in less borrowing, but sunny or cloudy days will result in more borrowing. 


